---
title: '(no subject)'
to: Luke Roelofs
email: luke.mf.roelofs@gmail.com
---

Hi Luke,

It was great to see you too, thank you for some fun chats!  Apart from saying that
I think mental self-rotation might be an interesting case for you (both when used
to answer questions about how things look from over there and when used to answer
questions about how they look from someone else’s perspective; \citet{kessler:2010_embodied}
is my source for some of this), I want to start
with your closing aside:

> ‘(Analogous questions might also be posed about the unconscious, purely
> motor, representations that explain various hand-movement interference
> effects. That motor program seems to be doing two things: facilitating
> your own movement and tracking the other’s position/movement. There’s some
> initial plausibility in expecting it not to bother duplicating the same
> content twice over, so maybe this could be another example of one state
> playing two roles?)’

Three thoughts ...

First, on background, you use ‘tracking’ which I think matters. As I like to set
things up, there is a distinction between tracking and representing.  A process tracks
an attribute just if, perhaps within limits, how the process unfolds non-accidentally 
depends on whether the attribute is present or absent. Often we track one thing by
representing another---you can track toxicity by representing odour. And of course some
tracking may not involve representations at all.

Second, what you say here I think is exactly how motor representation is standardly understood
in many cases including the automatic imitation effects that Cecelia mentioned.
Observing you initiate or perform an action, motor representations occur in me that would
occur if it were I, not you, who is performing that action. These motor representations may
facilitate categorizing your action and anticipating your movements. But if were to perform the action,
these very motor representations would also contribute to my performance. That’s why I’m often
faster to perform actions congruent with those I am observing: some of the motor representations are 
already occurring in me. This is also why I often need inhibition in performing incongruent actions
to those I am observing. And it’s why amplifying motor activity using TMS can generate motor evoked 
potentials on the very muscles that I would need to perform the action.

As far as I can tell, the most straightforward way to understand all of these effects involves
the assumption that there is a single motor representation involved in tracking others’ actions 
and performing my actions.

(Btw, I’m also tempted to think that some broadly perceptual representations lead the same kind of double life: this is explicit in \citet{kampis:2015_neural} and does not seem like a crazy way to interpret \citet{Samson:2010jm}. You might also think of mental self-rotation as a potential case.)

Third, suppose you think not only that these motor representations which facilitate my categorizing your action and anticipating your movements but that their doing so is no accident. 
Then it looks like you have a potential problem concerning direction of fit:
are you saying that one and the same token is supposed to be both mind-to-world and world-to-mind?
Even if you think that this is not incoherent, we want to avoid saying this because motor 
representations are the postulates of a specific theory and we would need very strong justification
for adding to that theory.

My view is that we can avoid the potential problem by recognizing that (i) direction of fit
is a feature of a representation *relative to a system in which it features* and (ii) one 
representation can play a role in two or more systems. (Can give you mundane examples of this 
if you like.)

# II

I mention this because of the way you formulate the ‘non-duplication’ claim: 

> ‘the subject doesn’t have to ‘represent the same content twice over’, that they can use a single token intention for two representational purposes at once.’

I think you might run into the same potential problem concerning direction of fit.
If you do, I’m not sure how it might be resolved or avoided.

I’m also struck by ‘they can use’: in the motor case, we have to be careful about what
is happening in me and what I am doing.

Note sure that either point is of much concern, but seems worth observing.

# III

One last distinction: Marr’s computational description vs representations and algorithms.

(Aside: I think this distinction is sometimes missed. For example, researchers occasionally contrast the view that Gergely and Csibra’s teleological stance (roughly: if a potentially desirable outcome is such that this action is a best available means of achieving it, then the outcome is a goal of the action) correctly describes goal tracking with the view that motor processes enable goal tracking. I think the contrast is entirely mistaken because the motor view, far from competing with the teleological stance, actually relies on it. The teleological stance describes the inference pattern that the motor processes are supposed to be implementing.)

In describing the interactive mindreading case, I was focussed on the computational description and neutral on the representations and algorithms. 
Of course the view I’m offering is only plausible if it can be implemented, so I do think your suggestion about its implementation not being too demanding bears on whether it is plausible. 

Anyway, thank you! I’m intrigued and curious about where you’re taking us all with non-duplication (am guessing it fits in with co-presentation, imagination &c).

best wishes,
Steve