---
title: notes for possible BBS Commentary on De Neys Fast and Slow Dual Process
created: 2022-09-15
tags:
  -
projects:
  - 9YtfJg_Cp-hKqG7x4bzbt
---

\tableofcontents


Thinking about a submitting a possible BBS commentary on \citet{deneys:2022_advancing}. Both Jason Low and John Michael suggested this.
## Submission (draft)

TITLE: A View from Mindreading

AUTHORS: Jason Low, Stephen A. Butterfill and John Michael

ABSTRACT: (60 words)

De Neys opposes the ‘exclusivity feature’, on which fast and slow processes are ‘exclusively tied’ to particular responses.  This opposition poses a dilemma for us as mindreading researchers. 

On the one hand, we agree with De Neys’ theoretical argument. Because automatization is always possible, any conclusion arrived at by a slow process could, in principle at least, also be arrived at by a fast process. Further,  \citet[p.~11]{deneys:2022_advancing} explains that ‘there is no solid empirical ground for the exclusivity assumption’---this is the ‘fundamental problem’ of the target article.

On the other hand, a fruitful strand of mindreading research relies on the method of signature limits \citep{Carey:2001ue}. [note: not mindreading source] A signature limit of a process is a pattern of responses that the process generates which are incorrect or suboptimal (hence ‘limit’) and which no other process under consideration would generate (hence ‘signature’). For example, \citet{butterfill_minimal} argued on theoretical grounds that some fast processes for tracking others’ mental states are likely to generate incorrect predictions about beliefs involving mistakes about numerical identity.  And in support of this, \citet{Low:2012_identity} found that whilst 3-year-olds, 4-year-olds and adults show correct looking behaviour in an object-location false-belief task, the same participants showed incorrect looking behaviour in an object-identity false-belief task. The switch from processing a location false-belief task to a numerical-identity false-belief task did not affect the usual age-related improvements in participants’ explicit verbal judgements, as predicted. [note: ‘affect’ is wrong] This is not just a hint that there is more than one process [note: remove not just and add further]: seeing the same signature limit in adults as in infants, we infer that the fast process is unchanged by development (not everyone would agree: \citealp{thompson:2014_signature,Scott:2010oh}).

We cannot follow De Neys in rejecting the exclusivity assumption while also using the method of signature limits. What to do?

The theoretical argument is less challenging than it first appears. That any conclusion arrived at by a slow process could be arrived at by a fast process does not imply that every fast process can generate any response, not even in principle. Further, automatization may be sufficiently rare in practice.

On the evidence, De Neys mentions mindreading only in passing. Methodologically, the studies De Neys relies on mostly involve observing direct, explicit choices. In mindreading research, by contrast, the norm is to observe both indirect implicit and direct explicit behaviours generated by a single scenario. These include anticipatory looking and verbal responses \citep{Clements:1994cw}, response times and choices \citep{edwards:2017_reaction}, curvatures of mouse movement and initiation times of mouse movement \citep{Wel:2013uq} or postural sway and purposive action \citep{zani:_mindreading}. In Clements and Perner’s seminal study, for instance, 3-year-olds’ [note: remove apostrophe] show correct looking behaviour that anticipates the belief-based action of an agent despite erring in their explicit verbal answers about where the agent will go to search for the object. The case for accepting that fast mindreading processes reveal an ability to anticipate actions based on false beliefs is strengthened by evidence that infants’ \citep{meristo:2012_belief} and younger and older adults’ \citep{grainger:2018_implicit} anticipatory looking shows a similar looking pattern.

The lack of solid ground De Neys rightly identifies in the domain of reasoning may be due in part to the predominance of less sensitive measures than are commonly used in studying mindreading.

The view from mindreading therefore indicates that the exclusivity assumption, properly understood, is solidly grounded after all.

In accepting this we are immediately faced with a problem. De Neys’ elegant proposal about switching between fast and slow processes ‘forces us to get rid of exclusivity’ \citet[p.~24]{deneys:2022_advancing}. [note: citet -> p] To see why [note: is this why? Maybe offer it as a further reason for avoiding De Neys’ solutiuon. ‘We do not quite see why, but there seems to be some considerations that motivate seeking alternatives.’?], consider a scenario due to \citet{Ruffman:2001ng}. Their children watched Ed acquire a false belief. They were then invited to place bets on which of two slides Ed would come down. Their bets reveal they felt no uncertainty (younger children went all in on the wrong slide). But Ruffman et al also measured anticipatory looking as Ed was about to emerge, and on this measure indicated a correct prediction [note: remove ‘on’; append ‘in contrast to their incorrect bets’].  We take the betting to index a slow process and the looking to index a fast process.  On De Neys’ model, the slow process should only be triggered if fast processes generate conflicting responses, leading to uncertainty. In this case we seem to have neither conflict among fast processes nor uncertainty (although of course we cannot entirely rule this out).

If De Neys’ model of switching does not fit the developmental evidence, is there an alternative?  One possibility is not too far from De Neys’ idea.  Fast processes are involved in monitoring cognitive fluency.  Perhaps the slow process is triggered by low cognitive fluency (and stopped by a gain in cognitive fluency). Asking children to choose where to place their bets interrupts their processing and so triggers deliberation; as they reason through the problem (Ed will go where his chocolate is), they regain cognitive fluency.  If this is right, De Neys would be right that fast processes drive slow processes; but this does not require that slow processes concerning one domain or question are driven by fast processes generating responses to the same question nor even in the same domain.

In sum, widening De Neys’ view to consider mindreading not only points to some evidence that is hard to accommodate but also yields a conclusion we think De Neys will welcome: how fast and slow interact is a truly deep problem.



## Jason Draft

Our commentary concerns the evidential basis for De Neys’ (2022) proposed model. De Neys writes, “The fundamental problem I will raise is [...] there is no solid empirical ground for the exclusivity assumption.” In research on reasoning, participants give an initial judgement about the logic of a problem and afterwards are allowed extra time before giving a final judgment (Bago & De Neys, 2017, 2019a). The evidence shows that reasoners who give correct answers in the final stage often generated correct answers in the initial stage. De Neys is correct in wondering how the exclusivity assumption – that intuitive and deliberative systems are associated with unique responses – can even be supported when studies show that participants’ initial response is already correct. However, the evidence from two-response studies in the domain of logical reasoning only requires participants to generate direct explicit responses, making it difficult to thoroughly assess the exclusivity assumption. Moreover, in considering evidence, the domain of mindreading is mentioned only in passing and a closer look at the domain of mindreading reveals abundant evidence for the exclusivity assumption.
 
In the domain of mindreading, many studies measure subjects’ predictions of others’ mistaken belief-based action using indirect implicit responses and direct explicit responses within a single task. These include anticipatory looking and verbal responses (Clements & Perner, 1994; Ruffman et al., 2001), response times and choices (Edwards & Low, 2017), curvatures of mouse movement and initiation times of mouse movement (van der Wel et al., 2014) or postural sway and purposive action (Zani, Butterfill, & Low, 2020). In Clements and Perner’s seminal study, for instance, 3-year-olds’ show correct looking behaviour that anticipates the belief-based action of an agent despite erring in their explicit verbal answers about where the agent will go to search for the object. The case for accepting that fast mindreading processes reveal an ability to anticipate actions based on false beliefs is strengthened by evidence that infants’ (Meristo et al., 2012) and younger and older adults’ (Grainger et al., 2018) anticipatory looking shows a similar looking pattern. De Neys is surely right that as automatization is possible, any conclusion arrived at by a slow process could, in principle at least, also be arrived at by a fast process. It is possible that children and adults’ efficient tracking of others’ belief could be achieved through automatization. But it does not follow from this that every fast process can generate any response. And indeed, the above findings from mindreading research raise the possibility that some fast mindreading processes have signature limits that restrict the range of responses they can generate. Low and Watts (2013) found that whilst 3-year-olds, 4-year-olds and adults show correct looking behaviour in an object-location false-belief task, the same participants showed incorrect looking behaviour in an object-identity false-belief task. The object-identity required participants to represent how an agent’s experience of an object would lead to him believing that there were two objects present when, in fact, there was only one object. The switch from processing a location false-belief task to a numerical-identity false-belief task did not affect the usual age-related improvements in participants’ explicit verbal judgements.  ……

## cut because not sure this is right

John’s objection: couldn’t children go through a period of uncertainty but end up quite certain by the time the place the bet? And isn’t this actually what De Neys’ model would predict (decrease in uncertainty is the cue for System 2 deliberation to end).

Mindreading research also offers a perspective on De Neys’ proposal that uncertainty monitoring determines whether System 2 is activated at all (§3.2 and figure 1). Discoveries about mindreading indicate that this cannot be the whole story. To illustrate, \citet{Ruffman:2001ng} identify a scenario involving false belief where System 1 and 2 processes generate conflicting responses (as indexed by anticipatory looking and explicit choices, which imply incompatible predictions). Despite the conflict, the participants’ bets reveal they felt no uncertainty (they went all in). Apparently, then, System 2 can be activated even in the absence of System 1 conflicts and even without uncertainty.

This evidence that uncertainty cannot be the whole story fits with everyday experience.  Faced with the Müller-Lyer illusion, it is possible to be certain that two lines are the same length while retaining the impression that they are different lengths.  System 1 does not appear to be conflicted or uncertain.




## 2022-09-22

John suggested two papers, \citet{travers:2016_time} and \citet{mata:2017_seeing}.

\citet{travers:2016_time}: mouse tracking study of tasks like the bat-and-ball, where mouse positions measured over ~60 seconds and analysed like eye movements. Findings are in line with default interventionist and against a parallel processing view. Relates to De Neys’ earlier work:

> ‘De Neys (2012, 2014) has proposed an intuitive logic model. This modifies the traditional default-interventionist model to account for many findings which indicate that when participants provide biased, heuristic responses, they are often implicitly aware of some conflict between their responses and the normative standard.’
> \citep[p.~110]{travers:2016_time}

\citet{mata:2017_seeing} might be useful for arguing that all of the explicit choices are system 2 responses, even where they involve applying heuristics. (Use of heuristics is a System 2 process, even if the input to the heuristic is a phenomenal consequence of a System 1 process.)


## Instructions

100-500 is optimal, and we value succinctness.

every proposer states their position in the field and lists between 2-10 relevant publications, again succinctly.

## To Submit

### 1. Name of the target article for which you are submitting a commentary proposal.

> Advancing Theorizing about Fast-and-Slow Thinking


### 2. All authors, including any possible co-authors, listed at the top of your submission document.

> Jason Low, Stephen A. Butterfill and John Michael


### 3. What aspect of the target article or book you would anticipate commenting on. 

Title: ‘A View from Mindreading’


Our commentary concerns the evidential basis for De Neys’ proposed model. \citet[p.~11]{deneys:2022_advancing} writes, ‘The fundamental problem I will raise is [...] there is no solid empirical ground for the exclusivity assumption.’ But in considering evidence, the domain of mindreading is mentioned only in passing. We will argue that a closer look at the domain of mindreading reveals abundant evidence. We also highlight methodological and theoretical consequences of including more research on mindreading.

Methodologically, the studies De Neys relies on mostly involve observing a single, direct, explicit choice response. In mindreading, by contrast, the norm is to observe multiple responses including indirect and implicit responses. These include anticipatory looking and verbal responses \citep{low:2014_quack}, response times and choices \citep{edwards:2017_reaction}, or postural sway and purposive action \citep{zani:_mindreading}. The lack of solid ground De Neys rightly identifies in the domain of reasoning may be due in part to the predominance of less sensitive measures than are commonly used in studying mindreading.

Where does this leave the exclusivity assumption? De Neys is surely right that as automatization is possible, any conclusion arrived at by a slow process could, in principle at least, also be arrived at by a fast process. But it does not follow from this that every fast process can generate any response. And indeed, the above findings from mindreading research raise the possibility that some fast mindreading processes have signature limits that restrict the range of responses they can generate – which provides a key methodology that could perhaps be adopted in reasoning research too.

One theoretical implication of considering mindreading concerns De Neys’ proposal that uncertainty monitoring determines whether System 2 is activated at all (§3.2 and figure 1). Discoveries about mindreading indicate that this cannot be the whole story. To illustrate, \citet{Ruffman:2001ng} identify a scenario involving false belief where System 1 and 2 processes generate conflicting responses (as indexed by anticipatory looking and explicit choices, which imply incompatible predictions). Despite the conflict, the participants’ bets reveal they felt no uncertainty (they went all in). Apparently, then, System 2 can be activated even in the absence of System 1 conflicts and even without uncertainty.

Widening De Neys’ view to consider mindreading not only points to some evidence that is hard to accommodate but also yields a conclusion we think De Neys will welcome: how fast and slow interact is a truly deep problem.




### 4. The relevant expertise you would bring to bear on the target article or book.

**Low** is a developmental psychologist who has studied mindreading and provided empirical and theoretical defence of a two systems theory:

  * Low, J., Apperly, I. A., Butterfill, S. A., & Rakoczy, H. (2016). Cognitive Architecture of Belief Reasoning in Children and Adults: A Primer on the Two-Systems Account. Child Development Perspectives, 10(3), 184–189. https://doi.org/10.1111/cdep.12183

  * Edwards, K., & Low, J. (2019). Level 2 perspective-taking distinguishes automatic and non-automatic belief-tracking. Cognition, 193, 104017. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cognition.2019.104017


**Butterfill** researches philosophical issues in development and has defended a two systems theory of mindreading: 

  * Apperly, I. A., & Butterfill, S. (2009). Do humans have two systems to track beliefs and belief-like states? Psychological Review, 116(4), 953–970. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0016923

  * Butterfill, S. A. (2020). The Developing Mind: A Philosophical Introduction. London: Routledge.


**Michael** opposed a two systems theory of mindreading on theoretical grounds but provided empirical evidence in support of it:

  * Christensen, W., & Michael, J. (2016). From two systems to a multi-systems architecture for mindreading. New Ideas in Psychology, 40, 48–64. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.newideapsych.2015.01.003

  * Michael, J., Wolf, T., Letesson, C., Butterfill, S., Skewes, J., & Hohwy, J. (2018). Seeing it both ways: Using a double-cuing task to investigate the role of spatial cuing in Level-1 visual perspective-taking. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 44(5), 693–702. https://doi.org/10.1037/xhp0000486




## Discussion with John 2022-09-16

### 1.

\citet{vierkant:2018_choice} argues that keeping deliberation on task cannot be a System 2 process but must be a System 1 process (on the grounds that otherwise we would have to accept doxastic voluntarism).  His view seems to imply that System 2 cannot operate independently of System 1.  In particular, System 1 processes may be important for starting and stopping System 2 processes that we might losely call ‘deliberation’ (when is it needed and when is it enough?). 

This suggests a new issue for us: whereas before we focussed on how System 2 might influence System 1, we also need ideas about the influence of System 1 on System 2.

### 2. Is De Neys’ rejection of the exclusivity assumption incompatible with the method of signature limits?

A signature limit of a process is a type of response that the process generates which is incorrect or suboptimal (hence ‘limit’) and which no other process under consideration would generate (hence ‘signature’).  Using the method of signature limits initially appears to conflict with De Neys’ argument against the ‘exclusivity feature’, on which fast and slow processes are ‘exclusively tied’ to particular responses. 

De Neys’ argues that because automatization is always possible, any conclusion arrived at by a slow process could, in principle at least, also be arrived at by a fast process. We agree. But there are some caveats:

  * Although possible in principle, evidence for the existence of a signature limit may indicates that response automatization did not occur in this case.  And in many cases we would not expect automatization: given that the gains that can be made from automatization on any one situation are probably orders of magnitude smaller than the costs of automatizing, we should expect automatization to be selective for responses that are likely to be frequently needed in future; and if automatization probably requires repetition, we should expect automatization to occur only for responses that have occurred frequently in the past. 

  * Distinguish any response can be produced by *a* fast process from any response can be produced by *this* fast process. De Neys’ view that any response can be automatized is consistent with Steve’s view that *some* fast processes are immutable.


### 3. Jason’s Example

\citet{Ruffman:2001ng} finds a conflict between the responses generated by fast and slow processes (anticipatory looking and explicit choices imply incompatible predictions). Despite this conflict, children’s betting indicates that they were highly confident about the explicit choice they made. So: there are conflicting responses but little sign of uncertainty.  This is similar to John’s Muller-Lyer case except that in Ruffman et al’s example the participants were probably unaware of the conflict.

Conclusion: conflicting responses, whether or not we are aware of them, do not necessarily increase uncertainty.

Why is this relevant? De Neys’ model (figure 1) suggests that conflicting ‘intuitive’ repsonses should generate uncertainty which would trigger deliberation: 

> ‘ System 1 will continuously calculate the strength difference between activated intuitions. This results in an uncertainty parameter U. The more similar in strength the competing intuitions are, the higher the resulting experienced uncertainty. Once the uncertainty reaches a critical threshold (represented by d in Figure 1.2), System 2 will be activated. However, in case one intuition clearly dominates the other in strength, the resulting uncertainty will be low and the deliberation threshold will not be reached. In that case, the reasoner will remain in System 1 mode and the dominant intuition can lead to an overt response without any further deliberation.’
> \citep[p.~29]{deneys:2022_advancing}


### 4. Can we identify a situation like the Muller-Lyer or Ruffman cases in the domain of moral psychology?

A committed consequentialist has two children, one savvy and the other profligate. By stipulation, in these particular circumstances it is beyond doubt that the action with the best consequences is to assign their entire inheritance to the savvy child, cutting off the profligate one. Despite being confident that this is also the morally correct action, they still experience a sense of moral conflict. Probably because concern with fairness is inescapable.


### 5. Ideas about Moral Psychology

We wanted to get beyond fast=deontological, slow=consequentialist.

New ideas:

  1. There may be a range of independent fast moral processes, just as Moral Foundations Theory claims. These can generate conflicting responses (e.g. consequences vs fairness vs purity). If so, we should not be looking for a single moral theory (or model) to characterise fast moral processes.

  1.  Most of the current evidence for or against a dual process theory in the moral domain uses single, direct and explicit measures. This will only work (be sufficiently sensitive) if fast processes have a relatively direct influence on explicit choices. But fast processes may not  directly influence choices: instead they may provide changes in emotional and effective states, which could be used by slow processes that rely on heuristics. The heuristic is part of the slow process, not the fast process. This motivates us to focus on introducing better indirect tests of dual process theories in the moral domain. So far the only indirect measures used that we know about are mouse tracking studies.



## Discussion with Jason 2022-09-15

Conclusion must be not only that evidence fails to support De Neys’ conclusion but that it invites us to think much harder about how fast and slow are distinguished (not intuitive vs deliberative). \citet[p.~6]{deneys:2022_advancing} writes that ‘dual process theories focus on the interaction between intuition and deliberation’; from the perspective of mindreading, this is false.  It is, after all, super intuitive to say that Maxi will look in the cupboard.

All responses are a consequence of both fast and slow processes (Jacoby). But fast and slow operate on different time scales, and therefore unfold differently. Dissociations between different measures is one way to disentangle the influences of fast and slow processes.

Consider anticipatory looking. Fast process gets your eyes to the correct place. But has limited influence on verbal response, which is really the business of the slow process. So it is not the correctness or incorrectness of the fast process that requires a slow process; it’s that there are some responses that call for a slow process.

Is this wasteful? Imagine one person working out an impetus model, the other a Newtonian model. You don’t want one to provide an answer to the other; it won’t help and it could distract. Better to keep them separate if you can. And although having both models will often produce the same results (so why bother using both?!), they make complementary speed--accuracy trade-offs so it can be valuable to have both. Also important developmentally to have multiple models, and culturally. (Link to animal cognition: L1 but not L2 in chimps from Tomasello?)

KEY IDEA FOR COMMENTARY: There’s just a lot of evidence that De Neys is not considering, which ought to be taken into account and which may change the picture.  (De Neys does mention mindreading but gives just one source.)

Conflict monitoring: does this really happen? 

  * Ruffman gambling: correct response in gesture but wrong in betting without any sense of conflict. Mark of genuinely distinct processes is that there can be conflict without uncertainty. (Incidentally, we suspect that increasing time pressure would not help here.)

  * John’s Muller-Lyer example (aware of conflict but not uncertain)

Comparable conflicts in the moral psychology case? Committed consequentialist violates fairness, not uncertain but might experience conflict. Conjectrue: that fariness module is still exhibiting its signature limit.

## My notes before our meeting

Possible title? **A Mindreading (or Developmental?) Perspective on Fast and Slow**

Start with De Neys’ model \citep[figure 1 on p. 27]{deneys:2022_advancing}. What seems right? Whether deliberation is needed, and whether it should stop, cannot always be determined by deliberating about this. Otherwise there would seem to be a regress. So we agree with De Neys that deliberation can be triggered and ended by non-deliberative processes. Going further, we speculate that the ‘uncertainty monitoring’ proposed to trigger and stop deliberation could be achieved by metacognitive processes monitoring fluency, which contribute to confidence \citep[pp.~228--9]{alter:2009_uniting}.

We also agree that automatization can mean that arriving at a conclusion can be experienced as intuitive even though arriving at the same conclusion earlier would have been experienced as deliberative and effortful. Indeed, there seems to be a role for habitual processes to play in enhancing deliberation \citep{keramati:2016_adaptive}.



## The Method of Signature Limits

In studying cognitive development, the method of signature limits has proved useful for testing conjectures about processes \citep{Carey:2001ue}. A signature limit of a process is a pattern of responses that the process generates which are incorrect or suboptimal (hence ‘limit’) and which no other process under consideration would generate (hence ‘signature’). For example, some fast processes for tracking others’ mental states are thought to generate incorrect predictions about beliefs involving mistakes about numerical identity 
\citep{Low:2012_identity}. Seeing the same signature limit in adults as in infants (e.g. \citealp{edwards:2017_reaction}), we infer that the fast process is unchanged by development.

If the method of signature limits has been successful (not everyone would agree; \citealp{thompson:2014_signature,Scott:2010oh}), what follows for De Neys’ model?  The model is based rejection of the ‘exclusivity feature’, on which fast and slow processes are ‘exclusively tied’ to particular responses. We agree that automatization occurs and that, in principle, sufficient automatization could enable fast processes to generate any response whatsoever. In practice, however, automatization is rare enough that signature limits are detectable in physical and social cognition.

From a developmental perspective, then, there seems to be little motivation to reject the ‘exclusivity feature’. Why are things so different in the domains De Neys focuses on?  We consider three possibilities:

  1. Existing attempts to model fast processes are defective. For instance, we agree that it is probably a mistake to regard slow ethical processes as exclusively consequentialist \citep{kurzban:2012_hamilton}, but better motivated conjectures about how fast and slow ethical processes differ are being developed \citep{cushman:2013_action}.

  1. [this is now the main point] If the effects are not very strong, maybe more sensitive measures are needed. The studies De Neys cites mostly involve measuring a single response and varying the conditions under which it is produced. This was always a direct response, usually some kind of verbal answer following an opportunity to read a vignette.  Inspired by developmental studies which include adult subjects, dual process theorists may do better to measure multiple responses to a single scenario, such as anticipatory looking and verbal responses \citep{low:2014_quack}, response times and choices \citep{edwards:2017_reaction}, or postural sway and purposive action \citep{zani:_mindreading}. Greater measurement sensitivity could alternatively be gained through process dissociation. [add: Another technique that allows measuring indirect responses involves asking about one domain (spatial) where answers may be subject from another domain (perspective taking); further, it is possible to change the reasoning task while measuring the same response, as when contrasting level one with level two visual perspective taking \citep{surtees:2016_unintentionala} but see \citep{todd:2020_goaldependence}]
  
     i. on this: Suppose we did a vignette study and asked for verbal responses under time pressure. Would we predict that 3-year-olds would be good at FB-location and adults poor at FB-identity. It is possible? But not finding that pattern would hardly dent our confidence in the dual process theory.

  1. Dual process theories may be false of reasoning while true of some aspects of physical and social cognition.

  1. Even if exclusivity assumption is false, mindreading provides ways of testing dual process theories. For example, tying up the protagonist \citep{low:2020_visiblya}. Here we do not rely on the exclusivity assumption at all. (NB this is not directly evidence for dual process; we do this once we know the response is driven by fast processes to test, further, whether the fast process depends on motor cognition)


The possibility we have excluded is that De Neys is correct to model fast and slow processes as tightly integrated. In fact we propose that De Neys’ is best understood as not a dual process theory at all. In fact, De Neys stresses that his model is about the contrast between ‘intuitive’ and ‘deliberative’ rather than any more constrained notions of fast and slow processes. We suspect, De Neys’ ‘intuitive’ and ‘deliberative’ both involve a mix of fast and slow processes \citep{keramati:2016_adaptive}. So when \citet[p.~6]{deneys:2022_advancing} writes that ‘dual process theories focus on the interaction between intuition and deliberation’, we disagree.  



We follow early dual process theorists in thinking of almost all responses as influenced by both fast and slow processes, where context and other factors may determine the relative strength of influence \citep{jacoby:1991_process}.
