---
title: Notes for Bart on Cultural Diversity in Folk Psychologies and on Philosophical Applications of Folk Psychology
created: 2022-04-27
projects:
  - 9e6fa5e3-10e6-4846-a79a-988799ffb92e
  - 5d01e788-34df-42d4-b116-37da0980cd7c
---

*Numbers in section headings refer to sections in Bart’s draft*

# §1.2 on diversity in folk psychology


## Cultural differences in false belief performance

How, if at all, might "serious quantitative disparities between folk-psychological vocabularies" translate into disparities in folk psychological abilities?

Consider cultural differences in development. One finding is that there are cultural differences in when children systematically succeed on false belief tasks. For instance Japanese children are significantly delayed relative to UK children \citep{fujita:2022_theory}; and rural Vanuatu significantly delayed relative to urban Vanuatu children, with the former showing relatively poor performance at all ages tested up to 13-14 years \citep{dixson:2018_scaling}.

Even more striking are differences in the order in which apparently distinct folk psychological abilities emerge. In addition to explicit false belief, \citet{Wellman:2004qt}’s theory of mind scale distinguishes:

> - KA = knowledge access
>
> - BE = belief emotion
>
> - DD = diverse desires
>
> - DB = diverse beliefs
>
> - HE = real-apparent emotion / hidden emotion
>
> - CFB = contents false belief.

In some cases, within a single community there appears to be an order in which these appear in development that is consistent across children \citep{Wellman:2004qt,wellman:2011_sequentiala,hiller:2014_validity}.

But several researchers have found difference in the order of development between communities. For example, \citet{shahaeian:2011_culturea} compared Iranian and Australian children. They found that KA comes before DB in Iranian children (as in Chinese children) whereas this pattern is reversed in Australian children. They explain the difference by appealing to cultural differences in collectivist views about deference to others, avoiding dispute and curbing individual desires.





(i) development, and in particular the Wellman et al work on scaling theory of mind; and 



Interesting suggestion about how cultural differences might yield differences in folk psychological practices:

> ‘in contexts characterized by some form of the opacity doctrine, a cultural de-emphasis on certain types of mental state conjecture may be “worked around” through sensitivity to emotional states. While diverse thoughts, opinions, and beliefs may not be a strong feature of ni-Vanuatu children’s conversational environments, social emotions (e.g., shame, resentment, jealousy, empathy, mutual happiness, and so forth) are more commonly and readily invoked in order to describe, predict, and explain behavior.’ \citep[pp.~2170--1]{dixson:2018_scaling}





This question has been directly addressed by comparing adults’ performance on false belief tasks in communities with, and without, opacity doctrines.




 Not sure this is relevant enough to slow us down. If you think this is relevant I could share some notes before our meeting.


# §1.4 on folk psychology in academia 

## Epistemology

Nagel claims that 
‘epistemic case intuitions 
are generated by [...] folk psychology’
\citep[p.~510]{nagel:2012_intuitionsa}. 
Here is that claim in its context:

> ‘Unless there is a special reason to think that knowledge
> attributions work quite differently when we are reading philosophy
> papers---and [there is] evidence against that sort of
> exceptionalism---we should expect to find that 
> epistemic case
> intuitions [which are among the things that inform philosophers’ views about what knowledge is]
> are generated by the natural capacity responsible for our
> everyday attributions of states of knowledge, belief and desire.
> This capacity has been given various labels, including 'folk psychology', 
> 'mindreading', and 'theory of mind’’
> \citep[p.~510]{nagel:2012_intuitionsa}.

Nagel also relies on claims about how things are in ‘mundane social navigation’:

> ‘In mundane social navigation, we typically see each other as acting for
> reasons that are anchored in facts in the world rather than as driven by
> internal states that are potentially decoupled from reality (Perner &
> Roessler, 2012).’ 
> \citep[p.~542]{nagel:2017_factivea}


Others offer an anchor in talk about knowledge:

> ‘our proposal will be to start by treating knowledge as the ordinary thing
> meant when people talk about what others do or do not “know.”’
> \citep[p.~2]{phillips:2020_knowledge}

From this, \citet{phillips:2020_knowledge} derive four features that they call ‘signatures’ of knowledge.

There is also
\citet{kitchener:2019_epistemology}’s review of \citet{gerken:2017_folk}; I have only read the review (which put me off the book), but it is striking that Kitchener accuses (perhaps wrongly?) Gerken of failing to distinguish Folk Epistemology as a descriptive project and as a normative project.


\citet{gerken:2017_folk} does see things a bit differently from Nagel:

> ‘A central claim of the book is that even deeply ingrained folk epistemological practices sometimes come apart from epistemological principles and norms. Our folk epistemological practices and tacit principles should be taken seriously. But they do not translate into epistemological principles in any straightforward manner. Often our folk epistemology reflects cognitive and communicative heuristics that allow us to go about our everyday epistemological business without having to resort to epistemology.’
> \citep[p.~292]{gerken:2017_folk}


## Agency

As background, Burge and Steward offer interestingly opposed views:

> ‘The paramecium’s swimming through the beating of its cilia, in a coordinated way, 
> and perhaps its initial reversal of direction, count as agency.’
> \citep[p.~259]{burge:2009_primitive}

> ‘the paramecium cannot be an agent [...] 
> None of its interactions with the environment [...] need involve anything like an act on the part of the
> paramecium.’
> \citep[p.~227]{steward:2009_animal}


As I understand Steward’s model, she makes use of two key sources to 
derive claims about agency.
Discoveries about psychological capacities to track agents and their actions 
provide some, perhaps limited, support for a conclusion about which things are 
agents.
And what Steward calls ‘the evidence from everyday thinking’ likewise feeds into
this conclusion.

Claims about the role of folk psychology are carefully nuanced:

> ‘it may be that [our intuitions] make distinctions in the places they do 
> for reasons not altogether unconnected with the fact that
> because there are indeed distinctions in those places which need to be discerned.’
> \citep[p.~229]{steward:2009_animal}


> ‘some part of us finds it almost impossible not to categorise them as’ agents.
> \citep[p.~229]{steward:2009_animal}

I think Steward also relies on an assumption about concepts and words:

> We can ‘ask the normative question whether the concept truly applies to creatures of a given sort. 
> The concept, once formed, has its own integrity’
> \citep[p.~227]{steward:2009_animal}

## Joint Action

This is how \citet{gilbert:2022_simple} anchors her theory of acting together:

> ‘In common parlance we regularly refer to ourselves as doing things together. [...]
> My focal question in this talk can be put as a matter of semantics, broadly conceived: To what do people refer when they speak in this way? In other terms: What idea of acting together animates their so speaking? This is how I shall interpret the question: What is it to act together?
> I take this question to go to the heart of human life. It concerns one of the central ideas---if not the central idea---in terms of which human beings operate in society.’
> \citep[p.~1]{gilbert:2022_simple}


> ‘we may need to invoke something for which everyday language lacks a referring expression. That is to be 
> expected insofar as we seek what we might refer to as the deep structure of our thought about acting 
> together.’ 
> \citep[p.~2]{gilbert:2022_simple}


\citet{bratman:2022_two} expresses partial agreement in a response to Gilbert:

> ‘Gilbert seeks to articulate the ‘idea’ of acting together that ‘animates’ our commonsense talk about this important phenomenon. I seek a model that provides illuminating sufficient conditions for this phenomenon.’
> \citep[p.~1]{bratman:2022_two}



## Psychology

TODO see also some of Heider's ideas about extracting theories from folk psychology. (You already have my notes on Heider and I don’t think we will rely on this for the talk.)

