---
title: Notes on Meetings with John, June-November 2022
projects:
  - 396867cd-adde-4d50-8065-3505498304ec
created: 2022-06-17
updated: 2022-08-10
---

## 2022-06-17

John suggested we use \citet{wang:2011_effects} as a measure of in-group favouritism.
Basically: how much more do you punish or reward friends vs strangers?

Could consider comparing the difference between level of punishment and level of reward for (a) friends and (b) strangers.

## 2022-06-23

This meeting is based on \ref{url:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Wcl4hk0msx47yIqe44t3cbEiz7LLGbcf2NoDAtR7lOs/edit}. 

Our question was how to design a questionnaire to measure tribalism (in-group favouritism).
We thought about ways of using the dilemmas from \citet{bago:2019_intuitive}.
Then we ended up discussing the idea of just running one of their experiments with
participants from different cultural groups.


## 2022-07-01

At Corrado’s Milan lab meeting. The discussion was about using \citet{bago:2019_intuitive} for a cross-cultural study.

John shared pptx slides with Corrado’s lab meeting. I have handwritten notes scanned with office lens in 
\ref{file:John cross-cultural.moral psychology Milan Labe meeting 2022_07_01 12_32 Office Lens.pdf}.

Following this meeting I created a qualtrics account and got one of Bence’s experiments from \citet{bago:2019_intuitive}
running here:

\ref{url:https://warwick.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6rImfblBl1rvRwW}

Bence had previously emailed us the qualtrics code for the different experiments.


## 2022-07-08

John suggested \citet{kurzban:2012_hamilton} before we met.

This led to a curious thought about a potential study:

\ref{url:https://docs.google.com/document/d/11rTt-JU5FALaXEfWFc_Wacfjfp4OMZjnDbknlW7Tbrs/edit}

I agreed to consider applying for two small grants (details in \ref{file:funding/}).



## 2022-07-14

Before we met I went back to our ideas about \citet{kurzban:2012_hamilton} and decided they would not work as they stand.

We discussed \citet{bago:2022_situational}. 

Some notes from our meeting are in:

\ref{url:https://docs.google.com/document/d/11rTt-JU5FALaXEfWFc_Wacfjfp4OMZjnDbknlW7Tbrs/edit}

The details on \citet{kurzban:2012_hamilton} are in that document, but the core idea about the project I have copied here ...

### John’s brainwave

Why think that faster processes are deontological rather than consequentialist?
might say that rules are a bit like heuristics so simplify the problem and make it possible for the processes to be fast;
But, conflicting with this, (i) the evolutionary more basic decision scenarios appear to call for more consequentialist responses (see Kurzban et al, 2012); and (ii) the role of rules seems to be linked to social situations (and social emotions like shame and guilt); further, there’s no special reason to think that the computations required to be consequentialist invariably prohibit faster processing (cf vision).
May potentially have some faster processes that are more consequentialist (the very oldest); some quite fast processes that are rule-based (linked to social abilities) and slower processes that involve a mix on consequences and rules

John’s thought about authority: suppose you are instructed by an authority to act in Footbridge or Switch. What effect would this have on moral rightness judgements? Would it have a corresponding effect on action judgements (Would you …? y/n)?

### Programme 

Use cultural differences to understand the cognitive architecture of moral reasoning. (Old q: What is the cognitive architecture of moral reasoning? Lots of work. But rare that it’s considered cross-culturally (\citep{bago:2022_situational} is an interesting start) of course there is also Moral Foundations Theory in social psychology; but although that theory involves commitments on cognitive architecture, those are not tested directly and they conflict with the dominant dual-process theory among neuroscientists.)

### Obstacle

The dominant dual-process theory is neither theoretically nor empirically very well supported.

### Resolved

we first do a literature review and critique existing dual process theories; then formulate our own, then generate predictions.

### The question

How does culture influence the time course of moral decisions, specifically the time at which different factors come into play in making moral decisions?



## 2022-07-21

## 2022-08-10

Working on Templeton grant proposal (see `funding` subfolder)

### John’s key insights:

1. what should (or might plausibly) be fast from a biological point of view?

2. can we construct a minimal moral theory (and do we need to)

3. focus on the dilemmas themselves. Suppose we gave people a very simple scenario in which A pushes B in front of the train. Could this ever be ok? What information do they seek?  I.e. are the dilemmas cross-culturally valid.  If we did larger project, could do: module 1 on the cross-cultural validity of the dilemmas and module 2 on the fast-slow theory.

Also: I looked into some sources for anthropological research on moralities \citep{barker:2007_anthropology,heintz:2009_anthropology,howell:1984_society}; of these \citet{heintz:2009_anthropology} looks most promising at first glance.

## 2022-08-26

Discuss John’s Bial grant application. I have some comments on the draft (.docx).

Also we have RPP reject with reviews of our Gilbert-commitment paper.

TODO: read these references:

> ‘in carrying out joint actions, individuals can either utilize sensorimotor signals sent by the partner to perform real-time coordination (Dumas et al., 2010, 2020; Konvalinka et al., 2010, 2014; Keller et al., 2014), or rely on their internal model of the partner’s action (Wolpert et al., 2003; Kourtis et al., 2013; Pezzulo et al., 2017; Fanghella et al., 2021). Although interpersonal coordination is usually grounded in a combination of different strategies (Knoblich & Sebanz, 2008), these two mechanisms (real-time self-other integration and predictions of others’ actions based on internal models) are nevertheless distinct (Novembre et al., 2016; Satta et al., 2017).’

Agreed to revise our Gilbert-commitment paper next time. 

## 2022-09-02

Revised Gilbert-commitment paper . Agreed John will Submit to Philosophical Psychology first then Philosophical Explorations.


# 2022-09-09

Discussed \citet{deneys:2022_advancing} (see also \ref{note:De Neys 2022 - Advancing Theorizing about Fast-and-Slow Thinking}). (This is relevant to \ref{project:9YtfJg_Cp-hKqG7x4bzbt})

Ran out of time, so will return. So far:

* Remind John of Vierkant (maybe \citep{vierkant:2018_choice}?) who had this idea that doxastic voluntarism was a problem for two systems theories (it meant that only system 1 could be responsible for judgements)

* John’s observation: sometimes there is a felt conflict between something intuitive and something deliberative, for example in the Muller-Lyer illusion (one line still looks longer even after you have measured); the same might be true where you kill one to save five (the action might still seem wrong, even if you are convinced that it is right)

* By contrast, in the bat+ball example (they cost $1.10 together and the bat is $1 more than the ball; how much does the ball cost? intuition->$0.10) there is no felt conflict but rather a simple transition

* What is the exclusivity assumption? Seems to be that there are certain *answers* that only System 2 can provide. (I think De Neys is probably right to challenge this; after all, the theory should be about processes rather than responses; on the other hand, it seems to me reasonable for a theory to generate to conjecture that System 1 is unlikely to yield certain responses and to use that prediction to test the theory; but to do this is not to commit to any view about an exclusivity assumption)

* I proposed that De Neys’ model (see the figure) could be simplified by not distinguishing intuition and deliberation at all; they are merely qualitatively distinct; what is right that system 1 processes (metacognition) typically if not invariably determine when more reasoning is needed and when enough has been done to respond (mainly by delaying a response when cognition lacks fluidity). One consequence of this is that De Neys is best seen as offering a theory of System 2 rather than of the two systems. And the reason we still need a dual process view behind De Neys’ model is that we have to explain the sources of some of the more ‘intuitive’ system 2 results (why are there systematic errors? because the fast processes have left their mark on the ‘intuitive’ slower processes).

* How does De Neys’ view fit with the existence of signature limits?

* I want to object to De Neys’ objections to the idea that fast and slow processes run in parallel

# 2022-09-16

Notes from this meeting are in \ref{note:IUY0XRbaXB4XH_WqI0xWC}.


# 2022-10-07

Started working on revisions to \ref{project:gWoLIu8N6JZbb_tlh7Djs}.
This is in the two latest google docs.


# 2022-10-14

Scanlon’s principles are based on what people would accept is reasonable (Principle F etc).

How could it not be relevant to study what people actually accept is reasonable?

Why not just study what people think is reasonable with a view to extracting metaethical principles?  Also do people recognise that their principles are linked to what they think is reasonable?

Does Scanlon’s position leave room for cultural differences? (E.g. variation on whether Principle F is reasonable?)



# 2022-11-18

Thinking about following up on \ref{project:9YtfJg_Cp-hKqG7x4bzbt}
by proposing a view about heuristics being involved in System 2, not System 1, reasoning.

Problem is that this would require us to get deep into the reasoning literature.

Agreed to read \citet{evans:2016_reasoning} for next time.

Have made notes: \ref{note:Evans 2016 - Reasoning Biases and Dual Processes}

See also notes on \citet{wason:1974_dual} = \ref{note:Wason Evans 1974 - Dual processes in reasoning}.
Their reasoning makes me think that the proposal about 
heuristics being involved in System 2, not System 1, reasoning
is incompatible with their interpretation of the findings that motivated postulating
the dual-process theory in the first place.

Also looked at \citet{hulicka:1958_insight} (\ref{note:Hulicka Johnson 1958 - Insight Vs})

Might be interesting to trace origins of dual-process theory of reasoning? Impression from
reading: seems 
that it rests too much on hard to establish assumptions about people’s actual reasons
for their judgements vs their stated reasons.



# 2022-12-02

Reading for next time: \citet{kahneman:2013_thinking}
(*added after*: Similar source is \citet{kahneman:2002_maps})


Current project:

> 1. What are the principles that govern fast moral processes (deontological?) and what are the principles 
>    that govern slow moral processes (consequentialist?)?
>
> 2. What are the most fundamental grounds for distinguishing fast and slow moral processes? 
>    (What are the facts in need of explanation?) Are these the
>    same as the grounds for distinguishing fast and slow reasoning processes, mindreading processes, ...
>
> 3. Where there are distinct grounds for distinguishing fast and slow processes, are there also 
>    different things being distinguished?  Is it even possible that in one domain two fast–slow distinctions
>    might apply (so that there are fast–fast, fast–slow, slow–fast and slow–slow processes?)

\citet{evans:2016_reasoning} is clear that, using Wason’s 2–4–6 task, the fact in need of explanation is 
the disconnect between how people actually arrive at answers and how people say they arrive at answers.
As he puts it, ‘their stated reasons were simply rationalisations of unconsciously determined choices’ 
\citep[p.~14]{evans:2016_reasoning}. 


While this distinction between decision processes and stated reasons might be hard to accept on the basis of the one experiment (and also on the basis of the considerations \citet{nisbett:1977_telling} offer),
John suggests that Mercier and Sperber and one other collaborator have a more convincing experiment demonstrating this and recommends their BBS paper \citep{mercier:2011_why} which I think I did not read (they also have a chapter in the volume \citet{evans:2009_two} = \citet{mercier:2009_intuitive}). 

NB their view is that ‘the function of reasoning is argumentative. It is to devise and evaluate arguments intended to persuade’ \citep[abstract]{mercier:2011_why}.



# 2022-12-09

Discussion of \citet{kahneman:2013_thinking}.

1. Kahneman doesn’t say much about System 2

1. Kahneman doesn’t use the term ‘signature limits’ but the reliance on errors in System 1 suggests that he is probably implicitly relying on the method (or something interestingly related). Compare:

   > ‘"although errors of judgments are but a method by which some cognitive processes are studied, the method has become a significant part of the message" (Kahneman & Tversky, 1982a,p. 124). The methodological focus on errors and the role of judgmental biases in discussions of human rationality have evoked the criticism that our research portrays the human mind in an overly negative light (see, e.g., Cohen, 1981; Einhorn & Hogarth, 1981; Lopes, 1991). The present article is a response to the latest round in this controversy.’
   > \citep[p.~1]{kahneman:1996_reality}

1. In apparent contrast to De Neys’ rejection of the exclusivity assumption, Kahneman does think there are things that System 1 cannot in principle do.

1. Dichotomy or continuum?  Kahneman distinguishes System 1 and System 2 by appeal to automaticity, cognitive effort and attention. For example:

   > ‘Why call them System 1 and System 2 rather than the more descriptive “automatic system” and “effortful system”? The reason is simple: “Automatic system” takes longer to say than “System 1”’ 
   > \citep{kahneman:2013_thinking}.

   ... But these features are clearly on a continuum rather than all-or-nothing notions. Compare earlier when Kahneman was interested in intuition, which he characterised in terms of accessibility:

   > ‘Accessibility is a continuum, not a dichotomy, and some effortful operations demand more effort than others.’
   > \citep[p.~453]{kahneman:2002_maps}

   Given this, why does Kahneman insist on a binary System 1-vs-2 distinction?  Could be that this is merely a convenient simplification?  Or is there more to it?  

1. Tentative idea: System 2 processes are distinct not in that they require effort or attention but in that they require controlled direction of effort to a task set or goal.
   * This might explain why there is a dichotomy.
   * Need to be careful: focussing effort on one task can prevent what might appear to be System 1 processes from occurring (e.g. not seeing the Gorilla while counting passes—but we are not convinced that what is missing here is a System 1 process (see below))
   * Danger that appealing to control makes the distinction more obscure, not less.

1. What motivates different theorists to postulate two systems (or dual processes)?  Contrast \citet{evans:2016_reasoning}’s fact of explanation with \citet{kahneman:2013_thinking}’s:

   * \citet{evans:2016_reasoning}: the fact in need of explanation is the disconnect between how people actually arrive at answers and how people say they arrive at answers. As he puts it, ‘their stated reasons were simply rationalisations of unconsciously determined choices’ \citep[p.~14]{evans:2016_reasoning}. 

   * \citet{kahneman:2013_thinking}: among the facts in need of explanation are that some tasks demand much effort and others little or none.

   * Would be good to do a wider survey on this (e.g. \citet{dickinson:2016_instrumental} is probably different again)

1. On the conjecture about heuristics being used by System 2, not System 1: seems to fit \citet{kahneman:2013_thinking} much better (whereas it did not fit \citet{evans:2016_reasoning} at all).

1. On relation between System 1 and 2, Kahneman seems to have System 2 running continuously.

1. What exactly does System 1 do?  ‘Detect hostility in a voice’ / ‘Answer 2+2=?’ / ... (p. 23 of the pdf version we are reading).  
   * Maybe these actually require System 2 as well. System 1 provides the raw ingredients, but the interpretation of them as hostility or as the answer to a question may be System 2. Just requires very low effort because System 1 has done so much already.
  * System 1 plays two roles: (i) a source of prompts (images, feelings &c) that can feed into System 2 via heuristics; (ii) starting and stopping System 2 processes (e.g. stopping when cognition is fluid; compare De Neys’ model; inspiration for this comes from Till Vierkant).
  * What people typically say is System 1 is actually System 2 where everything is fluid and so there is little effort but not none. This is why the Gorilla is missed when counting passes (it’s not that there is no visual processing, presumably)
  * This bears on relation between System 1 and System 2 and might explain why Kahneman regards System 2 as running continuously.







1. next steps:

   1. Write up some of our discussions so far
   1. Apply the ideas to moral cognition
   1. Continue our survey by reading Hugo Mercier on the purpose of reasoning (roughly, he opposes confabulation and suggests that it has a social function; will be key to understand what System 2 does).
   (‘the function of reasoning is argumentative. It is to devise and evaluate arguments intended to persuade’ \citep[abstract]{mercier:2011_why}.)

Created google doc for next step after this meeting:

  * \ref{url:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oIVkfkDt_FYy0HVkp4TZAHDJBQX7hyJ6XjphFIy8tho/edit}


