---
title: Notes on Meetings with John, May 2022
projects:
  - 396867cd-adde-4d50-8065-3505498304ec
---

## Three Dimensions of Commitment (2022-05-14)

In the ERC proposal (p.~5 of submitted version), John distinguished ‘three dimensions in which individual differences may influence the sense of commitment’:

> •	Relationship dimension: To gauge the extent to which YOU’s motivation may be influenced by her relation with ME, we will measure participants’ interdependence with others in general using the 30-item self-construal scale (Singelis, 1994), and their attitude about their relationship with the specific other agent in a (real or hypothetical) joint action using the inclusion of other in the self scale (Aron et al., 1992). In addition, we will include items adapted from scales originally developed to measure commitment to a romantic partner (Rusbult et al., 2003; Johnson, 1999).
>
> •	Goal dimension: To gauge the extent to which YOU’s motivation may be influenced by her relation to the goal, we will administer the grit scale (Duckworth et al., 2007), and the conscientiousness-related items of the Big Five Inventory (BFI).
>
> •	Joint action dimension: To gauge the extent to which YOU’s motivation may be influenced by her willingness to perform actions together with others, we will administer the extroversion- and agreeableness-related items of the BFI.

Questions about this included whether there are other dimensions (e.g. empathy, alertness).


In discussion today John offered a revision on three factors which may influence sense of commitment:

> 1. gritty towards a goal (without respect to others’ goals)
>
> 2. commitment to specific people
>
> 3. doing something because of others’ expectations or because they are relying on you

Theoretically, could distinguish (2) and (3): 

> Suppose I promise you that I will do something then discover that my doing it will be bad for you. What do I do? If (2), my commitment to you should prevent me from doing it; but if (3), my desire to meet your expectations should cause me to do it.


## Grit

Want to relate commitment to grit and use the grit scale in some way (\citet{duckworth:2016_grit} is popular book, \citet{duckworth:2009_development} introduces shorter grit scale.)

## Wayne

says we should move away from experiments to real-life observations.


## Sketch for an experiment

We want an online experiment (1000+ Pp) to reveal individual differences in which of the Three Dimensions influence either persistence or an action that manifests commitment.
To this end we want to manipulate:

> 1. [no?]
>
> 2. The quality of relationship between Participant and potential helpee: perhaps have people sign up with a friend and then they are either in the experiment with their friend or with a stranger
>
> 3. The extent to which the helpee expects help: perhaps have just one other potential helper (helpee should have stronger expectations that participant will help) or many other potential helpers (helpee should have weaker expectations that participant will help) 


## next steps (2022-05-20)

Simple 2 x 2 : sand study but add in a friends condition vs a strangers condition.
(NB: other condition is chain vs parallel where chain indicates stronger expectations)

Develop questionnaire as in ERC proposal (grit, interdependence ...)

Do responses on the questionnaire predict either the effect of friends vs strangers or the effect of chain vs parallel.


## 2022-05-26

Discussed a scale to measure in-group favourisism. The one proposed by John measures value.